acitnum: ID number
bmi: body mass index
mechtype: the mechanism that caused the injury
blunt: whether the injury was a blunt or penetrating injury
tbi: whether the patient had a traumatic brain injury
edarrivalgcs: the patient's Glasgow Coma Score (feel free to wikipedia some of these) upon arrival to the emergency department
numrixfxs: number of rib fractures the patient had
admitday_intubated: whether the person was intubated their first day in the hospital. They intubate when the patient can't breathe on their own either due to lung injury or whatever else (again feel free to look up info on care procedures for traumatic injuries)
iss: injury severity score. you can look this up on wikipedia but it's basically a function of the worst three injury scores for the specific body parts. It's supposed to be a single number representing how bad an injury is overall, but it's sort of arbritrarily selected. In fact if you want it would be a good project to come up with a better overall injury score
aishead1 .... aisextremity5: injury scores for specific parts of the body
prehosp_crystalloids: the amount of crystalloids a patients recieved in the ambulance on the way to the hospital
hr0_temp: patient's temperature once they're admitted in to the hospital
hr0_resprate: respatory rate:
hr0_sbp: systolic blood pressure
hr0_ph: Ph of the patient's blood
hr0_paco2: partial pressure of CO2 (might have to look it up)
hr0_pao2: partial pressures of O2
hr0_hco3: concentration of hco3 in the blood
hr0_serumco2: concentration of CO2 in the blood
hr0_bun: blood urea nitrogen
hr0_lactate: concentration of lactate in the blood. lactate gets in to the blood when cells undergo anaerobic respiration, which is important to know because when they undergo anaerobic respiration (look up probably) it means their cells cannot get oxygen. You might want to look up or ask biology friends reasons for why cells can't get oxygen.
hr0_basedefexc: base deficit/excess, check out the wikipedia
hr0_inr: International normalized ratio of pt (partial thrombin time) and ptt.measures how fast your blood clots and whether the clots stay strong or they break up quickly/easily. you can look it up but it's basically an overall measure of whether your blood chemistry is balance or not.
hr0_factors ddimer, apc, pc, atiii: proteins involved in the coagulation cascade (can look up on wikipedia) or in fibrinolysis (wiki)